---
title: Dynamic Menus in Nuxt Content v2
date: 2022-06-07T19:44:57Z
---

# Dynamic Menus in Nuxt Content v2

After a bit of hassle, I've finally added some dynamic menus to the site here. Nuxt 3 and Nuxt Content v2 are a little unstable just yet; to achieve the desired results, I've had to upgrade to `@nuxt/content-edge` which comes with its own set of compatibility breaking issues. I also know that at some point in the future, one of these implementations will become redundant as known bugs are fixed and the project approaches maturity. For now, these are my findings and how I've implemented several menus here at ThomBruce.com.

## The NavBar

Is it fair to call that a navbar yet? The site is still shy in the way of style and structure, but at the top of every page added by the main template at `app.vue` we now have the beginnings of a main navigation menu. I've created and used a `NavLinks.vue` component with this structure:

```pug
<template lang="pug">
nav(class='space-x-2')
  ContentNavigation(v-slot="{ navigation }")
    NuxtLink(v-for="link of navigation" :key="link._path" :to="link._path") {{ link.title }}
</template>
```

Nothing special here that isn't already documented on the Nuxt Content website. Moving along...

## The Front Page Nav Menu

This is again not special, except in that I have placed the component in `components/content` so that I can use it in my Markdown files like so: `:main-nav{path="/"}`.

The component at `/components/content/MainNav.vue` looks like this:

```pug
<template lang="pug">
nav
  ContentNavigation(v-slot="{ navigation }" :path="[path]")
    ul
      li(v-for="dir of navigation" :key="dir._path")
        NuxtLink(:to="dir._path") {{ dir.title }}
</template>
```

## The ChildNav Menu

Here's where we diverge from documentation and (probably) the intentional behaviour of the Nuxt Content API.

There is a known issue with the ContentQuery API that remains unresolved (or at least only partially resolved). When querying the contents of a directory, we expect to have returned a list containing the contents of the folder. Instead, we get the parent directory back as a root value with the directory's contents listed in a `children` attribute. The issue remains open on GitHub, though some work has already been merged to begin resolving this: https://github.com/nuxt/content/issues/1141

To list the actual contents of a content folder, say my blog folder, we have to tap into the `children` attribute and iterate over those values from the returned object. My component at `components/content/ChildNav.vue` looks like so:

```pug
<!-- This template should be redundant in a future release of @nuxt/content -->

<template lang="pug">
nav
  ContentNavigation(v-slot="{ navigation }" :path="[path]")
    template(v-for="dir of navigation")
      ol
        template(v-for="link of dir.children")
          li(v-if="link._path != dir._path" :key="link._path")
            NuxtLink(:to="link._path") {{ link.title }}
</template>
```

This is used effortlessly from my markdown files as `:child-nav{path="/blog"}`.

## A Word on Markdown components

Nuxt Content v2's [markdown component syntax](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc) is an incredible feature! So far, my entire site has been composed in the content directory alone, having only a default page template at `pages/[...slug].vue` which intelligently renders every page:

```pug
<template lang="pug">
main
  ContentDoc.prose
</template>
```

To be able to build a rich and dynamic website from markdown files alone is remarkable. I love Nuxt 3 and Nuxt Content v2, even if they are on shaky ground just yet. 😅
