---
title: Making Sure Nuxt Generates All Pages
date: 2022-06-09T02:19:33Z
---

# Making Sure Nuxt Generates All Pages

Following [my last post](/blog/nuxt-content-dynamic-menus), there was a bit of an error with page generation. None of my blog posts were being generated any longer, and they were briefly inaccessible at the version of ThomBruce.com hosted online.

So, let's talk about what changed... In that post, I talk about making the menus more dynamic so that when you visit the blog index page, a list is automatically rendered with links to all of my posts. This is a very trivial thing to do, typically, but I'm using Nuxt 3 and it is... still a little immature and buggy. Importantly, I'm also using Nuxt Content version 2, which allows me to write posts like this one, host them as markdown alongside my site code and have them automatically rendered by Nuxt's static site generation engine. Then I made the mistake of saying, _hey, why not include a dynamic menu component in one of these markdown documents?_

Now, this is what Nuxt Content version 2 is supposed to be brilliant at. First level support for use of Vue components in Markdown. But when it comes to page generation, well, Nuxt 3 works a little differently. Nuxt 3 will try to automatically generate every page in a site's content tree, but the way it does this is by scanning every page it generates for links to other pages. It then follows and generates that page as well.

This totally works from within markdown content too! Prior to my change, I was simply listing the links to each blog post manually in a seperate markdown document and... Nuxt seamlessly generated those pages. But then I changed this manually approach to one which used a Vue component, to one which generated a list of links automatically.

I believe I've read that this should be supported... but it's clearly not there yet (that or I need to provide a config option I'm unaware of). What happened then is that Nuxt's page generation engine simply didn't render the component. Which makes sense, of course; markdown is typically static so it makes sense not to expect additional dynamic rendering to occur. But since this component was listing links to blog content... suddenly no following of those links during generation... suddenly no generation of the blog posts.

Fortunately, I've seen this before (whilst trying to be very clever with Nuxt 2's more limited page generation engine). The hacky fix is very simple: just add a sitemap. It doesn't even need to be visible: just add a sitemap component that invisibly lists every link in the content navigation tree.

So that's what I did. You can't see it, but there is a hidden list of links in the footer of my website. The code for it is pulled straight from Nuxt Content's fetchContentNavigation example, [here](https://content.nuxtjs.org/examples/navigation/fetch-content-navigation). It looks like this:

```vue
<script setup>
defineProps({
  navigationTree: {
    type: Array,
    default: () => []
  }
})
</script>

<template lang="pug">
ul.hidden
  li(v-for="(item, index) in navigationTree" :key="index")
    NuxtLink(:to="item._path") {{ item.title }}
    SiteMap(v-if="item.children" :navigation-tree="item.children")
</template>
```

I create a component at `components/SiteMap.vue` with that code, and use it from my sites footer like so:

```vue
<script setup>
const { data: navigation } = await useAsyncData('navigation', () => {
  return fetchContentNavigation()
})
</script>

<template lang="pug">
  footer
    SiteMap(:navigation-tree="navigation")
    small &copy; Thom Bruce {{ new Date().getFullYear() }}
</template>
```

Just like that, no more missing pages. It's like I've set myself a personal challenge _not_ to modify the default Nuxt page at `pages/[...slug].vue`. With tricks like these, every page on my website is being built from a single page template. Pretty flipping incredible. I love Nuxt 3!
