---
title: So, I've Started YouTubing...
date: 2022-06-27T17:00:00Z
---

# So, I've Started YouTubing...

Okay, so this is embarrassing but... I've started a YouTube channel. Or perhaps I should say "started". I've actually cleaned up a YouTube channel I already had and started uploading new content there. And why is it embarrassing? I will tell you. It is a, er... it's a let's play series. I mean that's not inherently embarrassing, I'm just not very good at it.

So, why do this if it's so embarrassing? _I can't believe you'd ask me that! Clearly I'm insecure about it; why would you pry for further information?!_ I kid. It's fine. It sort of goes back to my uni days. I was a film and television student, so back then I'd constantly be making video of some sort. In my last year, I did wind up focusing on writing because that's where I was strongest, but I did enjoy being involved in video production; I helped a few fellow students polish up their screenplays and took an interest in the production and editing of the finished pieces. My friends were bloody talented! Me? Less so on the directing and editing front, but my focus on screenplays means that I didn't end up with a lot of "finished" products, just a collection of finished screenplays.

_Side note: I totally want to publish those here at some point, I just need to work out how that's going to happen - will keep you posted._

Anyways, it isn't that I want to pivot into video production again. And it isn't that I want to "become a YouTuber" or let's player or what have you... There's sort of two reasons I've taken an interest again.

1. I just miss producing videos and would like to refine my skills once more, so that I can count video production among my talents.
2. I frequently feel guilty if I'm taking time off _just to play games_.

That's stupid, I know.

I have a heap of responsibilities already, both professionally and personally. I'm a dad, a programmer, a partner, and on top of all that I also have a mountain of anxiety weighing me down. 😅 I really should just feel comfortable putting some time aside for leisure. Yet, for some reason, I don't.

So... in lieu of a decent camera, a cast and a crew to produce anything with, recording gameplay serves a couple of purposes. First, I can play games and feel a little productive while doing so. And second, it's a casual and relaxing way to revisit and refine some old skills.

Upon recording my first few sessions, I have noticed another... _potential_ benefit. Like I said, I'm not good at it. Partly that's a social anxiety thing; I'm not a great communicator. Potentially, then, this is a way to practice talking more, to become kind of... more social. Because honestly, this social anxiety is kind of crippling. It prevents me from pursuing opportunities, or even answering them when they come to me. The few videos have done haven't helped me get over that - _in fact, they just have me waffling to try and fill dead air_ - but maybe this is a means to visiting my communication skills. _Maybe..._

Anyways, enough beating around the bush. I've started a let's play series and I'm kind of having fun doing it. Here is episode one of my playing Euro Truck Simulator 2:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ou4nyaVUqT0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
