---
series: WTF
---

# Who the Fuck is Thom Bruce?

What is identity? God, that's a question, isn't it? Identity is... a name, a personality, a set of attributes and characteristics. It's family, it's heritage, it's culture - it's not just who you are but also who you associate with. It is the name given to the collection of things that make you... you. It is the "who" in "who the fuck is Thom?" Good question.

---

I was born on March 14th (which is Pi day if you're a nerd - I am) in 1989. What can I tell you about 1989? I was born, the Berlin wall fell, the UK Prime Minister was... _Thatcher, right?_ Look, I think I can be forgiven for not remembering a great deal - I was, at most, nine months old that year. My first actual memory would be three or four years later...

I think I remember getting the scar on my jaw - at least I have flashes of trying to reach the tin of beans I wanted to insist on helping to open when I was a toddler, but this may be a false memory based on my mum telling me the story. I think I remember flying fast around the street corner on my tricycle and falling into a shallow beck - an incident which resulted in a sign being erected: "Warning: BECK!" Again, this might be a false memory. I do remember being locked in the house, afraid of what was behind a cupboard door, but this may have been a dream.

There are memories I'm sure are real: I remember the attic of that house being renovated, I remember we had a piano, I remember seeing bats flying in the night sky from our back garden, and "helping" my dad park his car while sat on his lap. I remember our family friends who lived up the hill and had a Sega Master System. I remember playing Alex Kidd, and the Master System versions of Sonic the Hedgehog and Sonic the Hedgehog 2. I remember catching the bus to school, and I remember that from age 5 or 6 onwards, we'd moved. I don't actually remember much more about that first house - where it was, yes, but not a great deal about how it was laid out inside.

My parents got divorced, but I don't remember that. They both started seeing new people; I don't remember that either. My dad remarried, my mum didn't - but remains with the same partner to this day. This has always been the norm: four parents, my dad and my mum in separate houses, my step mum and step dad with my dad and mum respectively. I have known no other way for things to be. So when in school I would mention that my parents were divorced and didn't live together and this would be met with sympathy, said sympathy always seemed weird to me.

I grew up in small villages, attending school in small towns. My journey to secondary school was an hour and twenty minutes, and another hour and twenty minutes back in the afternoon. The friends I had then were mostly seen at school, or eventually on _MSN Messenger_ and _MySpace_.
