---
title: Delete this Blog
date: 2022-08-14T15:44:31Z
---

If you're reading this, my blog is gone. It's dead. I killed it. _Actually, there's a chance you're reading this sometime in the future and I have decided to restore the blog section... but at the time of writing,_ **it's fucking dead!**

Y'see, I don't really use it right now. There are a handful of "articles" there but they're really more like notes. I tried to strike a balance between... the notes I wanted to take, that I wanted to have written down somewhere... and a semi-formal writing style that may have presented those notes as having utility for others. They did, to be sure. One of these articles talked about setting up Nuxt Content version 2 and how Nuxt 3 was an enormous game changer for me. And a later article talked about how I had now abandoned Nuxt 3 and returned to Nuxt 2, because the new version just wasn't as feature-rich and ready yet. Anyway, fuck it, it's dead now.

The point is this: I never planned those articles. They were, they are just notes for me to reflect on.

I do want to write better articles. I want to write... tutorials, maybe... maybe some fucking political commentary, I don't know. But my blog was getting off on the wrong foot. These weren't articles that I wanted anyone to read - not really. They didn't reflect "my brand" or some pretentious nonsense like that. They were fucking notes! I'm just pulling the veil away.

See, I'll still be writing here. Still be publishing shit on my website. Shit like this fucking note right here. But I don't wanna pretend like I'm - at present - writing for anybody but myself. This is me... talking to me.

I wanna fill this new "Notes" space with... well, it's self explanatory. Notes. I want to jot down ideas, todo lists, rough drafts and musings. And I wanna do so without the conceit that this is a "blog" worthy of anyone's time but mine.

When the blog returns - _if_ the blog returns (I've got a lot going on right now) - it will or it should feature less frequent articles with proper planning, some degree of actual research, proof-reading and polish. The blog, as it was, was not my best work. And I'm not gonna pretend I couldn't do better; I could.

So... welcome to the fresh bullshit that is my notes section. I will rave and ramble here, and reserve the title of "Blog", which I've apparently decided is far too ostentatious for this crap, for something else entirely.

Thanks for sticking with me.