---
title: Upgrading American Truck Simulator to 1.45
date: 2022-08-17T12:35:17Z
---

It's not secret that I've started doing some let's play video series on YouTube, the most recent being American Truck Simulator: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nI4ltRMlEG4

At time of writing, episode one has just dropped but I am actually six episodes into recording and scheduling these... seven, if you include the episode zero I published with my mod setup.

Version 1.45 of American Truck Simulator has been out for a while, but I've been frozen on version 1.44 while I wait for various... mod updates and the release of the Montana DLC. As of now, though, the Montana DLC is released, and all but one of the mods I'm using have updated to 1.45. [The only one that hasn't](https://forum.scssoft.com/viewtopic.php?t=293451) we can do without for the time being.

This is still a daunting task though. I've never... done a mod upgrade. I need to update something like... 20-something files. I need to unfreeze the game from version 1.44 and let it update to 1.45. And I need to install the Montana DLC. I just need to figure out what order to do all of that in...

## Opening the Game and Removing Unsupported Mods

Okay, step one... There's that mod without 1.45 support. I should open the game, remove that mod from the load order, close the game and remove the file. I don't think this step would be necessary if all of my mods were going to work on 1.45, but in this case there is that one that lags behind. So we uninstall, and we remove it.

_It might be a good idea to also load into the game here, and create a new save with that mod deactivated. Couldn't hurt._

## Update the Game to 1.45

Okay so next, with the game closed, I need to do the bulk of the under-the-hood work, beginning with updating the game itself. None of the other changes are going to work without this, so we start here. In Steam, I'll just open the game preferences and bump the version. Nothing to it.

## Replace Mod Files

Right then, with the game updating to 1.45, a lot of these mods are just gonna stop working. My hope had been that I could just swap out the old files for the new ones (which I'll have to download), but looking in the mods folder... yeah, a lot of these files are named _with_ their version numbers. Interesting... This might mean that ATS is unable to find the files after upgrading, and I may need to reconfigure my mod setup. _I had hoped they'd just fall into place and continue working... I'll have to give this some thought._

_Also note, when it comes to downloading ProMods, the first step is to generate a custom def file... Erm, I don't know if this needs replaced for 1.45 but I may as well do it. It had a different version number, so I think that's the right call._

## Install Montana

Moving on, installing the DLC is easy. Just do it. That's gonna work, no problem.

## [Edit] Boot Up the Game and Setup Mod Load Order

See [My Progress](#my-progress). I was hoping that the mods would just fall neatly back into place and I wouldn't have to set up the mod order afresh. Sadly, I do... No issue. Very easy to copy my old load order; just tedious.

## Create a New Save

And with that all done, I can create a new save and... we're done. American Truck Simulator is updated to 1.45, Montana is installed and my mods are all up to date. Let's play...

## _My Progress_

_I've... uninstalled and removed the gas stations mod and created a new save. I presently have version 1.45 of the game and the Montana DLC installing. I've also downloaded new versions of all of the mods which need to be updated._

_Once the downloads are complete, I just need to extract whatever archives need extracting, then move the files into place in the ATS mods folder. When doing so, I'll delete the old versions. With that done... I should be able to boot into the game and... well, I'll see if it needs reconfiguring from there. My hope is that the mods are IDed in such a way that it'll just work. If not, I'll do mod setup._

_I'm dreading this process more for ETS2, honestly - I just have more mods there - which is why I'm doing ATS first. For ETS2, I'm also still waiting on RusMap to be updated... though there's no ETA on that; if it comes to it, I might have to uninstall RusMap for the time being and do without._

_Okay, download done, game updated and everything is in place... Now what? I guess I just boot up the game and pray!_

_Hmm, as I probably should have expected the mod setup is a mess. It's now showing a bunch of warnings about mods no longer being installed, which... makes sense. They aren't! But their newer versions are ready and I just need to put them all in place in the proper order._

_But once the order is reconfigured and I've created a new save, we are done. Fantastic!_