---
title: On Taking Notes
date: 2022-08-16T15:10:56Z
---

Okay, right now if I want to write one of these notes I have got to do several things...

1. I open up Windows Terminal, already configured to default to my WSL Ubuntu instance which boots up and loads my shell
2. I change directory to my website working directory: `cd dev/thombruce/thombruce.github.io`
3. I open the website project in VS Code: `code .`
4. I wait, because on this occasion VS Code Server has had an update and that needs to be downloaded and installed
5. I generate some current dates to be used as a slug and metadata for the note: `date --utc +%FT%TZ && date +%s`
6. I create the new note file using the second of those dates (the seconds since epoch)
7. I begin, "Okay, right now if I want to write one of these notes I have got to do several things..."

That's... more steps than I want. That's more waiting than I want. And I could of course simplify some of this locally by writing a script that would automatically generate the date values and create the new file for me. But all that does is reduce steps 5 and 6 into a single step. It doesn't save me a lot of time; it would just be a minor convenience.

Instead what I really wanna do is something... something I've wanted to do for a long time.

I want to create my own CMS. It's a bad idea.

It's a huge undertaking just to, what? Just to turn a thirty second process into a 5 second one? _Create new note, start writing..._

So that's why it's not my intention for this _just_ to be another content management system. If that's all I wanted, plenty of options already exist. But I want to be intimately familiar with the software I'm using, and the best way to do that is to build it myself. I also want... I also want to be able to manage my domain, DNS, possibly also my analytics... everything relating to the management and publishing of the website, all in one neat little interface.

Of course I could also just use something like SquareSpace or WordPress...

I don't wanna, but I could.

Beyond what's public too, I'd also love to integrate... private notes. _Wait, am I talking about a notes app now or a CMS?_

Well, that's the thing. I'm still obsessed with the idea of integration. One big thing on my mind right now is... I wanna make a calendar app.

I wanna make a calendar app that... schedules my content (this would be public), shows me my kid's school timetable and when the refuse collections are for my postcode (this would be private), and I want seamless integration with scheduling events that would be... confidential, integrated but perhaps not available online.

I don't want to manage several separate calendars. I want to manage one calendar with several separate layers or domains, all of which can be shown or hidden on a master calendar, all of which could be set to... offline only, private or public. And if the events are offline only or private, there should also be an option to add a public proxy - something that says, _this item is private, but Thom is busy at this time, unavailable._

And I want that from a notes app too.

Right now, I've got notes in the form of text documents sitting on my desktop. Secure, offline. And then I have these... These random musings you're reading on my website.

Just by virtue of where they belong, where they ultimately... I dunno, target... they are in separate folders. I'm using different tools to write and edit them. And there's no easy way for me to have a sort of... overview of my notes.

So what I want is an application, a CMS that works for online and offline content, and integrates both seamlessly. That's just a starting point. It could also, in theory, integrate items stored on one server with another, or even... items stored on a server with those offline and those stored in a decentralised database.

One CMS to organise... my entire thought process, which is a mess.

One CMS to organise... my business, my hobbies, my family life, my time.

Because that's the issue. We live so many lives, yet we only have one clock - one pool of time to accommodate all of those lives.

Even if I'm organised right now, I'm stressed out because my organisation is here, and it's there, and it's over there, and...

I want to be able to see it all. I want to be able to manage that one life I have from one location that brings together my public events with my confidential work and my family and private life.

Sound good? Sounds good to me...

I'd best get to work.

---

Oh, wait, there are extra steps... In order to publish this note I also now need to:

1. `git add content/notes && git commit -m "add new note"`
2. `git push`

The rest is automated, but yeah... I just wanna: Create, Write, Publish. It should be simpler.