---
title: Upgrading Euro Truck Simulator 2 to 1.45
date: 2022-08-17T14:39:37Z
---

Okay, we just did this for [American Truck Simulator](/notes/1660739717) and it went... _okay. Pretty smooth. The game is working._

I'm not doing this immediately for Euro Truck Simulator 2, because it's a bigger task, but we may as well start thinking about it... So what are the steps?

## Opening the Game and Removing Unsupported Mods

Yeah, right now I am waiting on RusMap being updated but there's no ETA for that, so... I may go in and remove RusMap plus whatever road connections I have with it. We can always reinstall it later when the mod is updated.

Don't forget to create a new save.

## Update the Game to 1.45

This is easy enough. I just access the settings in steam and bump the version. No problem.

## Replace Mod Files

This is a big task. I need to download the new versions of each mod, extract whatever files are in zipped archives, and then put them all in place in the mod folder. I also need to delete the old files which have been replaced - we won't be needing them anymore. _I like to put the new ones in place first because it gives me an indication of which old files actually need to be deleted - a handful won't be replaced, as the old version does not need updating._

## Boot Up the Game and Setup Mod Load Order

Even though the old files will have been removed, the game will still show them as unavailable in the load order. This is actually super useful. I can use the old load order as a guide for setting up the new load order. Once I've done that, I remove the old mods and... we're ready to play!

## Create a New Save

The game will complain about missing mods, but we can ignore that and boot it up anyway. Make a save after doing this, then go for a little test drive. Everything should run smoothly. _Honestly, not as daunting of a task as I may have previously indicated._

## _Installing RoExtended_

_This is the big change I want to make going into the next season of play. RoExtended adds regions of Romania, Ukraine, Turkey, Moldova, Georgia and Russia. And I'm told the quality is pretty high, hence my interest. This is gonna take me looking at some new mod load orders. I'll probably leave this till last, just to make sure the other changes go smoothly first._